
# Windows Environment Variables

This is a list of Windows environment variables (user and system variables).

ALLUSERSPROFILE
Local returns the location of the All Users Profile.

APPDATA
Local returns the location where applications store data by default.

CD
Local returns the current directory string.

CMDCMDLINE
Local returns the exact command line used to start the current cmd.exe.

CMDEXTVERSION
System returns the version number of the current Command Processor Extensions.

COMPUTERNAME
System returns the name of the computer.

COMSPEC
System returns the exact path to the command shell executable.

CommonProgramFiles
Returns the location of the Common Files directory.

CommonProgramFiles(x86)
Returns the location of the Common Files directory for 32-bit applications on Windows 64-bit.

CommonProgramW6432
Returns the location of the Common Files directory for 64-bit applications on Windows 64-bit, if running a 32-bit application.

DATE
System returns the current date. This variable uses the same format as the date /t command. Cmd.exe generates this variable. For more information about the date command, see the Date command.

ERRORLEVEL
System returns the error code of the most recently used command. A non-0 value usually indicates an error.

HOMEDRIVE
System returns which local workstation drive letter is connected to the user's home directory. This variable is set based on the value of the home directory. The user's home directory is specified in Local Users and Groups.

HOMEPATH
System returns the full path of the user's home directory. This variable is set based on the value of the home directory. The user's home directory is specified in Local Users and Groups.

HOMESHARE
System returns the network path to the user's shared home directory. This variable is set based on the value of the home directory. The user's home directory is specified in Local Users and Groups.

LOGONSERVER
Local returns the name of the domain controller that validated the current logon session.

NUMBER_OF_PROCESSORS
System specifies the number of processors installed on the computer.

OS
System returns the OS name. Windows XP and Windows 2000 display the OS as Windows_NT.

PATH
System specifies the search path for executable files.

PATHEXT
System returns a list of the file extensions that the OS considers to be executable.

PROCESSOR_ARCHITECTURE
System returns the processor's chip architecture. Values: x86, IA64, AMD64.

PROCESSOR_ARCHITEW6432
System returns the processor's chip architecture, if running a 32-bit application on Windows 64-bit. Values: IA64, AMD64.

PROCESSOR_IDENTFIER
System returns a description of the processor.

PROCESSOR_LEVEL
System returns the model number of the computer's processor.

PROCESSOR_REVISION
System returns the revision number of the processor.

PROGRAMFILES
Returns the location of the Program Files directory.

PROGRAMFILES(x86)
Returns the location of the Program Files directory for 32-bit applications on Windows 64-bit.

PROGRAMW6432
Returns the location of the Program Files directory for 64-bit applications on Windows 64-bit, if running a 32-bit application.

PROMPT
Local returns the command-prompt settings for the current interpreter. Cmd.exe generates this variable.

RANDOM
System returns a random decimal number between 0 and 32767. Cmd.exe generates this variable.

SYSTEMDRIVE
System returns the drive containing the Windows root directory (i.e., the system root).

SYSTEMROOT
System returns the location of the Windows root directory.

TEMP or TMP
System and User return the default temporary directories for applications that are available to users who are currently logged on. Some applications require TEMP and others require TMP.

TIME
System returns the current time. This variable uses the same format as the time /t command. Cmd.exe generates this variable. For more information about the time command, see the Time command.

USERDOMAIN
Local returns the name of the domain that contains the user's account.

USERNAME
Local returns the name of the user currently logged on.

USERPROFILE
Local returns the location of the profile for the current user.

WINDIR
System returns the location of the OS directory. 
